# EffortLogger (in progress)
A Software Engineering Project implementing the scrum process and Agile model

## Project Description
A customer (who shall remain unnamed for confidentiality purposes) has requested us to produce a system of systems to help them improve on three dimensions. The first is to improve each professional’s ability to estimate effort during the start of each new agile sprint.  The second is to provide support for the use of the EffortLogger data during Sprint Planning via Planning Poker.  The third is to provide architectural and design support to enable future efforts to provide tools to improve planning and managing tasks at the team and team-of-teams levels as the firm migrates from traditional Scrum to a customized process based on enterprise-scaled agile (such as SAFe).  The motivation for moving on from Scrum is to better deal with the size, complexity, and quality issues they are facing, including the reality that the firm often finds itself working using cross-functional teams with members coming from an ecosystem of independent firms.  It is the firm’s desire that this new application provides the following enhancements to the Excel-based EffortLogger that they have been using: </br> </br>
•	Support the onboarding of new members into a team within the firm’s product team-of-teams structure and help them develop the specialized product-related knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to be successful and find a healthy work/life balance. </br>
•	Enable each team member to gather personal performance data about their velocity (e.g., how quickly they can produce the various work product deliverables required by their role) and the quality of their work (e.g., the number, kind, and effort to find the root cause of the defect, repair the defect and all subsequent work that must be redone because of the defect, and support the improvements needed to address the root cause to avoid similar defects in the future. </br>
•	Establish a robust foundation for controlled information sharing while ensuring the privacy of each professional’s data and the security of confidential team and team-of-teams data. </br>
•	Build on the results the firm has achieved with its use of the EffortLogger application and extend it to support the firm’s desire to be more data driven.  The firm proposes to do this by instituting job levels for every specialization (e.g., Developer 1, Developer 2, and so forth) and aggregating data for each level before making it available, thereby decoupling data from specific individuals.  This aggregated data will be used by future applications to be run at the team and team-of-teams levels while ensuring each team member that the use of personal data cannot be linked to any person.  The new application that the firm wishes to acquire must run on Windows and MacOS laptops and desktop machines and support all the current functions of EffortLogger and as many of the additional functions need by the various above-listed enhancements.
It is desirable for the user interface to retain many of the current EffortLogger elements so the adoption of the new application will be more rapid by the current workforce than would happen if a totally new concept of operations and user interface were to be implemented.
The firm has been adamant that the application must be written using Eclipse and the Java programming language with a user interface implemented using JavaFX.  They would prefer the implementation of the user interface using Scene Builder but will accept a manual JavaFX implementation.
